Expand OCS Cluster (#225)
openshift/openshift-origin-design: web-console/4.0-designs/storage/Expand Storage Cluster/Expand Storage Cluster.md

### Add Capacity (AWS/cloud)
![Storage Resources List](img/Expand-Storage-01.png) 
In the resource kebab menu, the user will find an action called “Add Capacity” clicking on that will open the add modal.

![Add Capacity Modal](img/Expand-Storage-02.png) 
In the “Add Capacity” modal, the user needs to decide on how much capacity he wants to add, and which storage class this request will be made against.

Note: The storage class presented should be filtered to only existing storage classes for the provisioners of the infrastructure OpenShift is deployed on, e.g. AWS or other cloud providers.
- Storage Class “Info tip”- The Storage Class will be used to request storage from the underlying infrastructure to create the backing persistent volumes that will be used to provide the OpenShift Container Storage (OCS) service.

![Expanding Status](img/Expand-Storage-04.png)
While the expansion is in progress, we will present an “Expanding” status if possible.
Note: “Expanding" would cover Add Node, Add Capacity, and Expand/Grow Capacity (in the future).

> ![Online Status](img/Expand-Storage-05.png)

Reviewer: Just a heads up if this is for OpenShift 4.2 we won't have toasts.

Reviewer 2: Ack @lizsurette about no toasts in OCP 4.2.  It's placed in there as future ask and aspirational.

# Expand OCS Cluster

## Supported Deployments for OCS 4.2

- AWS (IPI & UPI)
- VMware (UPI only)
- RHHI.Next (Bare metal)

## Expand Resource Wireframes 
We added to the storage section a new entity for “Storage Resources” which lists all the different storage platforms that are applicable or currently configured on OpenShift:

## Add Capacity
To add capacity, the flow will be decided based on the platform OpenShift is deployed on:

- **Add Capacity** - add capacity by creating underlying storage devices/volumes (in the cloud, i.e. AWS/cloud)

> - **Add Storage Devices** - use existing nodes & add available storage devices/volumes to select from (for UPI/unmanaged, i.e. VMware / Baremetal)

Reviewer 2: Add Storage Devices is moved to OCS 4.3.  Also note, it is the scenario where the Admin wants to add his/her own storage devices/volumes that was created outside of OCP.

### Add Capacity (AWS/cloud)

> ![Storage Resources List](img/Expand-Storage-01.png) 

Reviewer 2: @yuvalgalanti 
We should have the following in the kebab menu:
- Add Capacity
- Add Node
- Add Storage Dev

ice

And note that only Add Capacity is needed for OCS 4.2.  Add Node and Add Storage Device would be post OCS 4.2, and Delete probably should not be an option as it's the same as an uninstall and that should be handled via the OperatorHub and be consistent with how other CR's are managed in OpenShift.

In the resource kebab menu, the user will find an action called “Add Capacity” clicking on that will open the add modal.

> ![Add Capacity Modal](img/Expand-Storage-02.png) 

Reviewer 2: @yuvalgalanti

Change "Resource 2 - AWS EBS" to the actual cluster name shown in the list view, i.e. "ocs-converged-aws" to be consistent with the triggered kebab menu previously.  You're changing the "cluster name" and not the EBS resource, so the terminology used may confuse the audience.

Shall we change "Capacity" to "Requested Capacity" to match how we have it in the install workflow 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5589919/61480020-073ff800-a963-11e9-93e9-3241523ed774.png)

In the “Add Capacity” modal, the user needs to decide on how much capacity he wants to add, and which storage class this request will be made against.

Note: The storage class presented should be filtered to only existing storage classes for the provisioners of the infrastructure OpenShift is deployed on, e.g. AWS or other cloud providers.
- Storage Class “Info tip”- The Storage Class will be used to request storage from the underlying infrastructure to create the backing persistent volumes that will be used to provide the OpenShift Container Storage (OCS) service.

![Expanding Status](img/Expand-Storage-04.png)
While the expansion is in progress, we will present an “Expanding” status if possible.
Note: “Expanding" would cover Add Node, Add Capacity, and Expand/Grow Capacity (in the future).

> ![Online Status](img/Expand-Storage-05.png)

Reviewer 2: @yuvalgalanti 

Please change text of "Add capacity for Resource 2 is successful" to "Add capacity to ocs-converged-aws is successful"

When the expansion process is completed, the status will be changed back to online and a toast notification will be presented.
 

> ### Add Storage Devices (Baremetal)

Reviewer 2: @yuvalgalanti 
Note that ### Add Storage Devices (Baremetal) is for OCS 4.3 (to make clear that it's out of scope for 4.2).

Admin needs to select devices on the node/host, so they can be converted into CR, which in turn becomes the PVs.

![Add Storage Device](img/Expand-Storage-14.png)
Clicking on Add devices will open the “Add Storage Device” Form. 

![Add Storage Device Form](img/Expand-Storage-15.png)
![Add Storage Device Form](img/Expand-Storage-16.png)
After selecting the devices, clicking add will attach them to the OCS service. 

Note: based on the infrastructure the devices list will show different columns: 

- **For local storage for a baremetal node, device list should include**
    
    Device Name, Device UUID, Type, Capacity/Size, Model, Status

> ## Add Node

Reviewer 2: @yuvalgalanti We might want to remove the "Add Node" section for now as we're not going to let users select his/her own devices/volumes in OCS 4.2.  It's moved to post 4.3.  If we keep it in this PR (for OCS 4.2), then we need to strip down Add Node to just node selection (without the device selection) to be consistent with the [installation process](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-origin-design/blob/c60e650891073bdc0e763688b4a53ab5d34f505d/web-console/Storage/OCS/OCS%20_Installation_Workflow.md).

To add a node, the flow will be decided based on the platform OpenShift is deployed on:

> - **Add Node** - use existing nodes & existing storage devices/volumes (in AWS) to select from [UPI / Unmanaged - AWS, VMware, Baremetal]

Reviewer 2: Revise the statement to:
- **Add Node** - Add existing OpenShift nodes to the OCS cluster.

@yuvalgalanti

> - **Create Node** - creating a new node along with a default of 1 PiB of capacity (in the cloud, i.e. AWS) [IPI]

Reviewer 2: @yuvalgalanti 
Remove mention of Create Node.  It has been decided that this should never be performed via OCS.

### Add Existing Nodes
![Add Node](img/Expand-Storage-07.png)
Clicking on adding node will open the Add Node form. 

> ![Add Node](img/Expand-Storage-08.png)

Reviewer 2: Note @shirimordechay has updated these add node (in the install workflow) to not have the capacity column as it's no longer needed.  Also the out of total is not applicable as we don't know what the total is in AWS.  Please update all the add node mockups in this Add Node workflow.

@yuvalgalanti

# Expand OCS Cluster

## Supported Deployments for OCS 4.2

- AWS (IPI & UPI)
- VMware (UPI only)
- RHHI.Next (Bare metal)

## Expand Resource Wireframes 
We added to the storage section a new entity for “Storage Resources” which lists all the different storage platforms that are applicable or currently configured on OpenShift:

## Add Capacity
To add capacity, the flow will be decided based on the platform OpenShift is deployed on:

- **Add Capacity** - add capacity by creating underlying storage devices/volumes (in the cloud, i.e. AWS/cloud)
- **Add Storage Devices** - use existing nodes & add available storage devices/volumes to select from (for UPI/unmanaged, i.e. VMware / Baremetal)

### Add Capacity (AWS/cloud)
![Storage Resources List](img/Expand-Storage-01.png) 
In the resource kebab menu, the user will find an action called “Add Capacity” clicking on that will open the add modal.

Note: only Add Capacity is needed for OCS 4.2. Add Node and Add Storage Device would be post OCS 4.2.

> ![Add Capacity Modal](img/Expand-Storage-02.png) 

Reviewer 2: Note: Capacity can only be specified in TiB only (GiB, MiB not supported) and we're allowing for 1 TiB increments (no decimals).

![Expanding Status](img/Expand-Storage-04.png)
While the expansion is in progress, we will present an “Expanding” status if possible.
Note: “Expanding" would cover Add Node, Add Capacity, and Expand/Grow Capacity (in the future).

![Online Status](img/Expand-Storage-05.png)
When the expansion process is completed, the status will be changed back to online and a toast notification will be presented.
 

### Add Storage Devices (For OCS 4.3)

Admin needs to select devices on the node/host, so they can be converted into CR, which in turn becomes the PVs.

![Add Storage Device](img/Expand-Storage-14.png)
Clicking on Add devices will open the “Add Storage Device” Form. 

![Add Storage Device Form](img/Expand-Storage-15.png)
![Add Storage Device Form](img/Expand-Storage-16.png)
After selecting the devices, clicking add will attach them to the OCS service. 

Note: based on the infrastructure the devices list will show different columns: 

- **For local storage for a baremetal node, device list should include** 
    
    Device Name, Device UUID, Type, Capacity/Size, Model, Status

> ## Add Node

Reviewer 2: @yuvalgalanti  Let's mention this as Add Node (> OCS 4.2) as this is optional for now as the alternative is for user to label the nodes in the Node List (which is what is planned for 4.2).

Reviewer 2: @yuvalgalanti We may want to remove the "Add Node" section entirely as this may evolve / change post 4.2.

# Expand OCS Cluster

## Supported Deployments for OCS 4.2

- AWS (IPI & UPI)
- VMware (UPI only)
- RHHI.Next (Bare metal)

## Expand Resource Wireframes 
We added to the storage section a new entity for “Storage Resources” which lists all the different storage platforms that are applicable or currently configured on OpenShift:

## Add Capacity
To add capacity, the flow will be decided based on the platform OpenShift is deployed on:

- **Add Capacity** - add capacity by creating underlying storage devices/volumes (in the cloud, i.e. AWS/cloud)
- **Add Storage Devices (4.3)** - use existing nodes & add available storage devices/volumes to select from (for UPI/unmanaged, i.e. VMware / Baremetal)

### Add Capacity (AWS/cloud)

> ![Storage Resources List](img/Expand-Storage-01.png) 

Reviewer 2: @yuvalgalanti 
Please add the "MCG" tab after the "OCS" tab in all the mockups after "All Instances, " OCS".

# Expand OCS Cluster

## Supported Deployments for OCS 4.2

- AWS (IPI & UPI)
- VMware (UPI only)

> - RHHI.Next (Bare metal)

Reviewer: Should this be "Bare Metal (UPI only)"?

Reviewer 2: All baremetal is UPI, but the design for OCS 4.2 is not pertaining to RHHI.Next nor Bare Metal.

## Expand Resource Wireframes 

> We added to the storage section a new entity for “Storage Resources” which lists all the different storage platforms that are applicable or currently configured on OpenShift:

Reviewer: This can be removed now with the new direction, right?

Author: ya right!

![Storage Resources List](img/Expand-Storage-01.png) 
In the resource kebab menu, the user will find an action called “Add Capacity” clicking on that will open the add modal.

Note: only Add Capacity is needed for OCS 4.2. Add Node and Add Storage Device would be post OCS 4.2.

![Add Capacity Modal](img/Expand-Storage-02.png) 
In the “Add Capacity” modal, the user needs to decide on how much capacity he wants to add, and which storage class this request will be made against.

Note: The storage class presented should be filtered to only existing storage classes for the provisioners of the infrastructure OpenShift is deployed on, e.g. AWS or other cloud providers.
- Storage Class “Info tip”- The Storage Class will be used to request storage from the underlying infrastructure to create the backing persistent volumes that will be used to provide the OpenShift Container Storage (OCS) service.

![Expanding Status](img/Expand-Storage-04.png)
While the expansion is in progress, we will present an “Expanding” status if possible.
Note: “Expanding" would cover Add Node, Add Capacity, and Expand/Grow Capacity (in the future).

![Online Status](img/Expand-Storage-05.png)

> When the expansion process is completed, the status will be changed back to online and a toast notification will be presented.

Reviewer: Note that we won't have Toasts for 4.2

![Expanding Status](img/Expand-Storage-03.png) 

> If the user don׳t have enough capacity in the existing nodes, the add button will be disabled and we will show short text explaining what needs to be done. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the user doesn't have enough capacity in the existing nodes, the add button will be disabled and we will show an inline error explaining what needs to be done. 
```

> - “Add Nodes” hyperlink takes the Admin to the Nodes page, where he/she can label additional nodes to be added to the OCS cluster.

Reviewer: I feel like we can improve this flow. This essentially takes the user out of the Operators section completely and they will need to know to come back to the right spot the way it's written. Could we present a way to add/label nodes directly within the Expand modal instead?

Author: We can do that much better, we only "agreed" to this flow due to time limitations. I will add the desired flow as well.

### Add Storage Devices (For OCS 4.3)

Admin needs to select devices on the node/host, so they can be converted into CR, which in turn becomes the PVs.

![Add Storage Device](img/Expand-Storage-14.png)
Clicking on Add devices will open the “Add Storage Device” Form. 

> ![Add Storage Device Form](img/Expand-Storage-15.png)

Reviewer: Is there any need to simply "Edit" the devices that are part of the storage resource? Would a user ever what to see what's already there and potentially remove them?

Author: if expantion will be handled through devices an edit option is valid. I think for now it will be handled on the nodes level without getting into the device level. the priority for devices went down. so it will be a future implementation.

Reviewer: Sounds good! Do you think this PR should stay in progress as we figure out what's next?

Author: no, I will open a new one

![Add Storage Device Form](img/Expand-Storage-16.png)
After selecting the devices, clicking add will attach them to the OCS service. 

Note: based on the infrastructure the devices list will show different columns: 

- **For local storage for a baremetal node, device list should include** 
    
    Device Name, Device UUID, Type, Capacity/Size, Model, Status

## Add Node
To add a node, the flow will be decided based on the platform OpenShift is deployed on:

- **Add Node** - Add existing OpenShift nodes to the OCS cluster 

### Add Existing Nodes
![Add Node](img/Expand-Storage-07.png)
Clicking on adding node will open the Add Node form. 

![Add Node](img/Expand-Storage-08.png)
![Add Node](img/Expand-Storage-09.png)

> Admin clicks on the node(s) he/she wishes to add, after selecting the nodes, the user can choose the ammount of capacity he needs for OCS.  

Reviewer 3: Please note that the "OCS 4.2 Expand Cluster" (https://docs.google.com/document/d/180V4xUQhuK8QV4L6RNLzOdbmXYhiQxhFQ_AyKBtuqjY/edit#heading=h.ttzx48pcqori) and https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v_x42hURK3AP9IAo1Gx6b9x38D3KNDbrV1P_4C24_nI/edit?ts=5d371764 do not mention about 'choosing capacity to add' while adding nodes.

# Expand OCS Cluster

## Supported Deployments for OCS 4.2

- AWS (IPI & UPI)
- VMware (UPI only)
- RHHI.Next (Bare metal)

## Expand Resource Wireframes 
We added to the storage section a new entity for “Storage Resources” which lists all the different storage platforms that are applicable or currently configured on OpenShift:

## Add Capacity
To add capacity, the flow will be decided based on the platform OpenShift is deployed on:

- **Add Capacity** - add capacity by creating underlying storage devices/volumes (in the cloud, i.e. AWS/cloud)
- **Add Storage Devices** - use existing nodes & add available storage devices/volumes to select from (for UPI/unmanaged, i.e. VMware / Baremetal)

### Add Capacity (AWS/cloud)

> ![Storage Resources List](img/Expand-Storage-01.png) 

Reviewer 2: @yuvalgalanti 

Please spell out Capacity (U/T) to Capacity (Used/Total) as it's not clear what U and T is otherwise.

> ![Storage Resources List](img/Expand-Storage-01.png) 

Reviewer 2: Can we fix the "Label" button in the mockups?

Also "Filter X by name" is probably "Filter by name"

Note: The storage class presented should be filtered to only existing storage classes for the provisioners of the infrastructure OpenShift is deployed on, e.g. AWS or other cloud providers.
- Storage Class “Info tip”- The Storage Class will be used to request storage from the underlying infrastructure to create the backing persistent volumes that will be used to provide the OpenShift Container Storage (OCS) service.

![Expanding Status](img/Expand-Storage-04.png)
While the expansion is in progress, we will present an “Expanding” status if possible.
Note: “Expanding" would cover Add Node, Add Capacity, and Expand/Grow Capacity (in the future).

![Online Status](img/Expand-Storage-05.png)
When the expansion process is completed, the status will be changed back to online and a toast notification will be presented.
 

### Add Storage Devices (VMware / Baremetal)

Admin needs to select devices on the node/host, so they can be converted into CR, which in turn becomes the PVs.

![Add Storage Device](img/Expand-Storage-14.png)
Clicking on Add devices will open the “Add Storage Device” Form. 

> ![Add Storage Device Form](img/Expand-Storage-15.png)

Reviewer 2: Typo.  Model (not Modal).

Should we use "Capacity" vs. "Size" to be consistent with terminology elsewhere?

> ![Add Storage Device Form](img/Expand-Storage-15.png)

Reviewer 2: We need to note that this form will differ based on infrastructure platform (AWS vs. VMware vs. baremetal).

![Add Storage Device Form](img/Expand-Storage-16.png)
After selecting the devices, clicking add will attach them to the OCS service.  

## Add Node
To add a node, the flow will be decided based on the platform OpenShift is deployed on:

- **Add Node** - use existing nodes & existing storage devices/volumes (in AWS) to select from [UPI / Unmanaged - AWS, VMware, Baremetal]
- **Create Node** - creating a new node along with a default of 1 PiB of capacity (in the cloud, i.e. AWS) [IPI]

### Add Existing Nodes
![Add Node](img/Expand-Storage-07.png)
Clicking on adding node will open the Add Node form. 

> ![Add Node](img/Expand-Storage-08.png)

Reviewer 2: 10 of 10 Selected vs. 10/10 Selected.  It also makes it consistent with 40 PiB of 40 PiB.

Author: it's just a mockup Ju

![Add Node](img/Expand-Storage-09.png)
Admin clicks on the node(s) he/she wishes to add:

> ![Add Node- Choose Devices](img/Expand-Storage-10.png)

Reviewer 2: Let's be consistent whether Size / Capacity comes before or after Type?  Should be consistent with all views where Devices are presented.

Typo. Model not Modal.

> ![Add Node- Choose Devices](img/Expand-Storage-10.png)

Reviewer 2: We do need to note that the device modal can vary based on the infrastructure, e.g. baremetal vs. VMware vs. AWS.
